Deven Edward Pitcher                                                       January 30th 2014
IST 754: Dr. Milton Mueller                                                Problem Formulation


	Calculating the Profitability of Referring Sales to Online Retailers
	====================================================================

Introduction:
=============== 

Online retailers such as Amazon.com provide a referral sales program which enables independent owners and operators of websites to earn a percentage of all qualifying purchases made when the shopping session originates from the independent website. 

The model and analysis proposed herein specifically targets the revenue potential and cost associated with owning and operating a website for the purpose of generating sales referrals.

Caveats:
========

A fictional web entity known as “Yuppy” will be used to frame the context for our analysis. Yuppy exists as a place for people curious about acquiring new hobbies and lifestyles to browse the experiences and recommendations of experts and the wisdom of the crowd. The traffic on Yuppy is generated by users who wish to talk about their lifestyles, critique others lifestyles, or find analysis on a lifestyle before attempting to acquire that lifestyle. Users of Yuppy will recommend products and services to each other as one of the primary means of interaction.

Example: Shaun White, Olympic snowboarder and 1,100 other snowboarders all recommend or endorse the following products for [Real Snowboarders]:  book- A Snowboarders Dream, clothing ZipTech Waterproof Jacket, food RedBull Energy Drink.

Ultimate Goal: 
===============

Any potential or current owner/operator of a website can plug in their own “Yuppy” into the models data points and help calculate and predict the profitability of their sales referral endeavor. Specifically the curator of “Yuppy” needs to decide which categories of products to target. Using the amount of traffic and level of interactivity of the sites user base, the site moderator will have to determine which sector of Amazon's payout chart will be most profitable. 

Data Points:
==============

-[0]-Number of monthly users, data from site analytics is used 

-[1]-Number of users who click through and purchase something. Unknown, this variable will be a percentage of data point [0], adjusting this is the primary means of realizing profitability and increasing this percentage is Yuppy's major goal. 

-[2]-Sales Referral % paid back to Yuppy - Amazon has their rates listed here: https://affiliate-program.amazon.com/gp/associates/help/operating/advertisingfees
and vary depending on category. Comparing categorical differences could help Yuppy target a specific user-base to maximize profitability.



-[3]- Kickback Amount paid to users of Yuppy who help refer another user of Yuppy into purchasing something. Could be $0, a percentage of [2], or a flat fee. This lets the model predict success of “meta-level referrals”. That is to say, a referral within a referential website.

-[4]-Cost of site operation: Hosting, domain name registration, advertising fees, These are well disclosed and easily available from publicly advertised rates.

-[5]-Cost of site creation and Maintenance: site upkeep, development costs, expansions from adding new e-commerce referral platforms requires additional development costs. This is more difficult to pin down. A DIY web developer could spend very little other than time, hiring professionals will provide additional significant costs.
 

Conclusion:
=============

Acquiring these data points and formulating them correctly is the task at hand. Our major source of Sensitivity comes from data points [1] and [2]. The number of users and the number of users who “click through”. 